# Liquid-Handling-Robot
This code is written to automate the mixing process of Opentrons-2 machine to generate recipes/assay.

The goal of this project is to make a personalized cocktail samples generation robot using automated liquid handling machine. As formulating liquid mixtures is in need in various industries and is a time-consuming process, it will speed up the process and reduce the labor cost of such tasks by developing a software to automate the tasks. As dietary preference is vital when it comes to food, personalized machine will be able to satisfy individuals with different needs. As the project has time limitation, some parts of the projects have not yet been completed. As the application of this project is broad, it is decided to focus on cocktails recipes generation, but the hope is to extend to usage of the code to other applications such as understanding the solubility system in multi-components liquid mixtures or optimizing the cost of the drugs formulation.
In this project, in order to create mixtures, it is essential to understand what mixture problems is. Mixture problems is defined as creating a mixture from two or more components [1]. The main constraints for each component are that the component fraction is between 0.0 to 1.0 and the sum of the component fraction has to be added to 1.0. In this project, the ingredients amount is normalized as volume fraction. Many industry sectors such as food, pharmaceutical, polymer, and chemical all deal with mixture problems. It is desired to focus our attention to mixology applications by generating recipes according to preference of users based on dietary or health purposes such as calories constraints, alcoholic content of the recipes, sourness or bitterness of the alcoholic content.
In the past mixology recipes generation has always been based on experience of the bartender and the history of the drinks, but rarely has Design of Experiment approach been used [2]. It is desired to generate recipes with complex constraints with multi-component mixtures with as simple as possible codes, so that it is convenient for further modification. With Design of Experiment approach, we will be able to understand the mixture system with the least amount of mixture tested [1]. For food purposes, taste, which is hard to quantified, is a big component of the system that is desired to be explored. 
As time is of an essence, it is needed to incorporate automation into recipes generation work flow. This eliminates the burden to conduct repetitive tasks and inconsistency during transferring the liquid. In this project, Opentrons-2, an automated liquid handling robot, is used to automate the liquid transferring process. It was chosen due to the low in price and its opensource platform to find and share protocols and workflow.

